---
layout: post-index
title: About
---

Lok Ming (Tom) Tam, Ph.D., is a molecular toxicologist who specializes in mechanisms of metal toxicity. Tom is currently a postdoctoral associate dissecting the mechanisms underlying methylmercury toxicity in a Drosophila model under the mentorship of Matthew Rand, Ph.D., in the Department of Environmental Medicine at the University of Rochester (UofR). Originally from Hong Kong, Tom fell in love with environmental toxicology when he took ETOX courses as an exchange student at UC Davis in 2012. Since then, he has been fascinated by the multidisciplinary nature and practicability of toxicological science. His curiosity in understanding the environmental etiology of chronic diseases led to his doctoral degree in Environmental Toxicology from the UC Riverside in 2019. From there, his doctoral research focused on delineating the molecular mechanisms underlying the toxicity of arsenic, often known as “King of Poisons,” with an in vitro human cell model. In particular, he studied how arsenic disrupts C3H/C4-type zinc finger motifs and functions of proteins involved in DNA repair and protein quality control. After graduation, he joined an aging biology laboratory to study the mechanisms of longevity in the University of Rochester before studying the interface of toxicology and aging in the current lab. 

Since the summer of 2020, Tom has actively served on the executive board of the University of Rochester Postdoctoral Association (URPDA), which has made significant achievements in advancing postdoc welfare and optimizing postdoc experience at Rochester. These efforts include streamlining the postdoc onboarding procedure and raising the awareness of the value of diversity, inclusion, and equity among future academic scholars.
